Draft code of conduct (#19)
RSE-leaders/researchsoftware.org: code-of-conduct.md

Harassment includes offensive communication related to gender, sexual
orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion, sexual
images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following,
harassing photography or recording, sustained disruption of talks or other
events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.

Participants asked to stop any harassing behaviour are expected to comply
immediately.

Be careful in the words that you choose. Remember that words can be offensive
to those around you. Offensive jokes are not acceptable at the
2nd International RSE Leaders Meeting.
Excessive swearing is not appropriate at this event.

If a participant engages in behaviour that violates this code of conduct, the
workshop organisers may take any action they deem appropriate, including
warning the offender or expulsion from the workshop.

## Procedure for reporting harassment

If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have
any other concerns, please contact any member of the code of conduct committee
via email or direct message using the workshop Slack chat:

- Anne Fouilloux (annefou@uio.no)

> - Ian Cosden

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ian Cosden (icosden@princeton.edu)
```

- Radovan Bast (radovan.bast@uit.no)

Report the harassment incident via email to a member of the code of conduct
committee. All reports are confidential.

When reporting the event to a code of conduct committee member, try to gather
as much information as available, but do not interview people about the
incident. The committee member will assist you in writing the report/collecting
information.

The important information we need consists of:
- Identifying information (name) of the participant doing the harassing

> - The behaviour that was in violation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The behaviour that was potentially in violation
```

- The approximate time of the behaviour (if different than the time the report was made)
- The circumstances surrounding the incident
- Other people involved in the incident

After the code of conduct committee receives a report, a decision will be made
as quickly as possible and any decisions made by the code of conduct will be
enforced immediately.

> The code of conduct committee is well informed on how to deal with the incident

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code of conduct committee is well informed on how to deal with an incident
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code of conduct committee is well informed on how to deal with the incident.
```

> The code of conduct committee is well informed on how to deal with the incident

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code of conduct committee is well informed on how to deal with an incident.
```

> and how to further proceed with the situation.  All of our committee members

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All of our committee members
```

> are informed of the code of conduct policy and guide for handling harassment at

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are knowledgable about the code of conduct policy and how to handle harassment at
```

messages, and exclusionary jokes are not appropriate at the 2nd International
RSE Leaders Meeting.

Participants violating these rules may be asked to leave the workshop
at the sole discretion of the workshop organisers.

Thank you for helping make this a welcoming, friendly event for all.

## Clarifications

Harassment includes offensive communication related to gender, sexual
orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion, sexual
images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following,
harassing photography or recording, sustained disruption of talks or other
events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.

Participants asked to stop any harassing behaviour are expected to comply
immediately.

Be careful in the words that you choose. Remember that words can be offensive
to those around you. Offensive jokes are not acceptable at the
2nd International RSE Leaders Meeting.
Excessive swearing is not appropriate at this event.

If a participant engages in behaviour that violates this code of conduct, the
workshop organisers may take any action they deem appropriate, including

> warning the offender or expulsion from the workshop with no refund.

Reviewer: Unless there is something I'm not thinking of, it's not going to cost anyone anything so I'd suggest removing "with no refund."

Author: Thanks. This is a copy-paste error. I will fix.

## Procedure for reporting harassment

If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have
any other concerns, please contact any member of the code of conduct committee:

> **Here we will list members of the code of conduct committee.**

Reviewer: I assume email addresses would be listed? Is that sufficient, or should we suggest another method of contact?

Author: Email addresses or direct message on RSE Slack?

Reviewer 3: I think we said, based on @SimonHettrick's suggestion, that we should list one email address, that of the chair. So one action point for the committee would be to decide on who will chair, and add their email address.

Reviewer 3: DMs on Slack are also fine I think.

Author: I agree, as participant I would like to see several contact points so that nobody is outside of the system.

Author: Addressed this but did not add email addresses of others but I will summarize remaining steps in a moment.

Report the harassment incident via email to a member of the code of conduct
committee. All reports are confidential.

When reporting the event to a code of conduct committee member, try to gather
as much information as available, but do not interview people about the
incident. The committee member will assist you in writing the report/collecting
information.

The important information we need consists of:
- Identifying information (name) of the participant doing the harassing
- The behaviour that was in violation
- The approximate time of the behaviour (if different than the time the report was made)
- The circumstances surrounding the incident
- Other people involved in the incident

The code of conduct committee is well informed on how to deal with the incident
and how to further proceed with the situation.  All of our committee members
are informed of the code of conduct policy and guide for handling harassment at
the workshop. There will be a mandatory code of conduct committee meeting just

> prior to the event when this will be reiterated as well.

Reviewer: The final paragraph is the only thing that I think we need to discuss, agree on, and possibly publish. Because as it stands now, I don't know exactly how we'd handle it. 
It's not clear from the language, but who does the mandatory code of conduct meeting apply to?

Reviewer 3: I think we could include a review of the code by the committee in one of the next calls, once the procedure of handling instances is clear. IMHO this would suffice to keep this point in the text and publish it.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me. I think it's sufficient to have a discussion on an upcoming call.

Author: I tried to make this clearer based on this good feedback.
